[[3 - Tags/YOCTO]]

This is a directory that is made when we source the oe-init-build-env script.  The folder structure is as follows - 
- 1. `build/buildhistory`
  If enabled via the buildhistory class file, the OEbuild system creates this directory automatically. This directory holds subdirs that classify the build info into image, packages and SDKs. 
- 2.` build/cache`
  Internal files and other random BS. 
- 3.` build/conf/local.conf`
  This houses all the local configurations that are done by the user for a specific build env. Any variable set here overrides any variable set elsewhere within the environment unless that variable is hard-coded within a file (e.g. by using ‘=’ instead of ‘?=’). Some variables are hard-coded for various reasons but such variables are relatively rare.
  We'll at least edit the MACHINE variable, to specify the target, the package classes being  used and the location to access the downloaded files. 
- 4. `build/conf/bblayers.conf`
  This is where the layers are defined that are walked through by bitbake. It uses teh BBLAYER variable to find the path for bitbake to follow. 
- 5.` build/conf/bblock.conf`
  This configuration file is generated by bblock and contains the signatures locked by bblock. By default, it does not exist and will be created upon the first invocation of bbloc.
- 6.` build/downloads `
  Contains the downloaded upstream tarballs. Can be reused or moved, and the location is updated via the DL_DIR variable. 
- 7. `build/sstate-cache/`
  Contains the shared state cache. Can be reused or moved, and the location is updated via the DL_DIR variable. 
- 8.` build/tmp`
  This, is where all the outputs of the build system end up and are collected. 
   - 1. `build/tmp/buildstats/`
     This stores all the build statistics that are generated by the buildstats class.
   - 2. `build/tmp/cache/`
     After bitbake FIRST parses the metadata (recipes and configuration files), the results are cached into this folder. Then reused to speed up future builds.
     During subsequent builds, bitbake checks all the recipes and compares with the cache to see if there have been any other changes. If none, then the parsed file in the cache directory is then used. 
   - 3. `build/tmp/deploy/`
     Find any and all end-result outputs that the build process has produced. Like, EVER. The DEPLOY_DIR points to this place.
     - 1. `build/tmp/deploy/deb/`
       This directory receives any .deb packages produced by the build process. The packages are sorted into feeds for different architecture types.
     - 2.` build/tmp/deploy/rpm/`
       This directory receives any .rpm packages produced by the build process. The packages are sorted into feeds for different architecture types
     - 3. `build/tmp/deploy/ipk/.`
       This directory receives .ipk packages produced by the build process.
     - 4. `build/tmp/deploy/licenses/`
       This directory receives package licensing information. For example, the directory contains sub-directories for bash, busybox, and glibc (among others) that in turn contain appropriate COPYING license files with other licensing information. 
     - 5. `build/tmp/deploy/images/`
       This is where we get what we want. The basic output objects of the build process are to be found here, like boot loader image, kernel, root filesystem and more. If you want to flash the resulting image from a build onto a device, look here for the necessary components.
     - 6.` build/tmp/deploy/sdk/`
       This is created to hold the tool chain installer scripts, which when executed, will install the sysroot that matches the target hardware.
   - 4. `build/tmp/hosttools/`
     This is used to create symbolic links to some of the host components that can be called within a task.
   - 5.` build/tmp/pkgdata/`
     Get the metadata that is packaged by the OE build system during the do_packagedata task over here !
   - 6.` build/tmp/sstate-control/`
     This is used for shared state manifest files. he shared state code uses these files to record the files installed by each sstate task so that the files can be removed when cleaning the recipe or when a newer version is about to be installed. The build system also uses the manifests to detect and produce a warning when files from one task are overwriting those from another.
   - 7.` build/tmp/sysroots-components/ `
     This directory is the location of the sysroot contents that the task [do_prepare_recipe_sysroot](https://docs.yoctoproject.org/ref-manual/tasks.html#ref-tasks-prepare-recipe-sysroot) links or copies into the recipe-specific sysroot for each recipe listed in [DEPENDS](https://docs.yoctoproject.org/ref-manual/variables.html#term-DEPENDS). Population of this directory is handled through shared state, while the path is specified by the [COMPONENTS_DIR](https://docs.yoctoproject.org/ref-manual/variables.html#term-COMPONENTS_DIR) variable. Apart from a few unusual circumstances, handling of the `sysroots-components` directory should be automatic, and recipes should not directly reference `build/tmp/sysroots-components`.
   - 8. `build/tmp/sysroots/`
     UNUSED. NEXT!
   - 9. `build/tmp/stamps/`
     This directory holds information that BitBake uses for accounting purposes to track what tasks have run and when they have run. The directory is sub-divided by architecture, package name, and version.Although the files in the directory are empty of data, BitBake uses the filenames and timestamps for tracking purposes.
   - 10. `build/tmp/log/`
     This directory contains general logs that are not otherwise placed using the package’s WORKDIR. Examples of logs are the output from the do_check_pkg or do_distro_check tasks. Running a build does not necessarily mean this directory is created.
   - 11. `build/tmp/work/`
     This directory contains architecture-specific work sub-directories for packages built by BitBake. All tasks execute from the appropriate work directory.
     - 1. build/tmp/work/tunearch/recipename/version/
       As described earlier in the “[build/tmp/sysroots/](https://docs.yoctoproject.org/ref-manual/structure.html#structure-build-tmp-sysroots)” section, beginning with the 2.3 release of the Yocto Project, the OpenEmbedded build system builds each recipe in its own work directory (i.e. [WORKDIR](https://docs.yoctoproject.org/ref-manual/variables.html#term-WORKDIR)). The path to the work directory is constructed using the architecture of the given build (e.g. [TUNE_PKGARCH](https://docs.yoctoproject.org/ref-manual/variables.html#term-TUNE_PKGARCH), [MACHINE_ARCH](https://docs.yoctoproject.org/ref-manual/variables.html#term-MACHINE_ARCH), or “allarch”), the recipe name, and the version of the recipe (i.e. [PE](https://docs.yoctoproject.org/ref-manual/variables.html#term-PE)`:`[PV](https://docs.yoctoproject.org/ref-manual/variables.html#term-PV)`-`[PR](https://docs.yoctoproject.org/ref-manual/variables.html#term-PR)).

		Here are key subdirectories within each recipe work directory:

		- `${WORKDIR}/temp`: Contains the log files of each task executed for this recipe, the “run” files for each executed task, which contain the code run, and a `log.task_order` file, which lists the order in which tasks were executed.
		    
		- `${WORKDIR}/image`: Contains the output of the [do_install](https://docs.yoctoproject.org/ref-manual/tasks.html#ref-tasks-install) task, which corresponds to the `${`[D](https://docs.yoctoproject.org/ref-manual/variables.html#term-D)`}` variable in that task.
		    
		- `${WORKDIR}/pseudo`: Contains the pseudo database and log for any tasks executed under pseudo for the recipe.
		    
		- `${WORKDIR}/sysroot-destdir`: Contains the output of the [do_populate_sysroot](https://docs.yoctoproject.org/ref-manual/tasks.html#ref-tasks-populate-sysroot) task.
		    
		- `${WORKDIR}/package`: Contains the output of the [do_package](https://docs.yoctoproject.org/ref-manual/tasks.html#ref-tasks-package) task before the output is split into individual packages.
		    
		- `${WORKDIR}/packages-split`: Contains the output of the [do_package](https://docs.yoctoproject.org/ref-manual/tasks.html#ref-tasks-package) task after the output has been split into individual packages. There are subdirectories for each individual package created by the recipe.
		    
		- `${WORKDIR}/recipe-sysroot`: A directory populated with the target dependencies of the recipe. This directory looks like the target filesystem and contains libraries that the recipe might need to link against (e.g. the C library).
		    
		- `${WORKDIR}/recipe-sysroot-native`: A directory populated with the native dependencies of the recipe. This directory contains the tools the recipe needs to build (e.g. the compiler, Autoconf, libtool, and so forth).
		    
		- `${WORKDIR}/build`: This subdirectory applies only to recipes that support builds where the source is separate from the build artifacts. The OpenEmbedded build system uses this directory as a separate build directory (i.e. `${`[B](https://docs.yoctoproject.org/ref-manual/variables.html#term-B)`}`).
		
		

- 12. `build/tmp/work-shared/ `
  This is used to hold recipes that share a work directory with others. 

