
# Disclaimer
Right, before we start this off, I am a 22-year old who graduated 10 months ago. This, is a rant, okay? This is an attempt at a think-piece, but ended up as an opinionated article. Regardless of the fact that I like it this way, I believe a disclaimer at the very top is called for, so that you, my dear reader, are aware of what you are getting into. Of course, feel free to scroll away if you wish to do so after reading the very first line - because I do NOT wish to make you feel like you've wasted your time. Have a nice day mate! And if you do indeed give this a read, please, have an opinion about it. Comment what you think is correct and what you disagree with. Educate ME. Let ME be more informed, because I am genuinely interested to know more.

What? You are still reading? You give a damn about what I have to say? Well, thank you for that. 

Let's do this then.

# Part 1 - The Problem With Engineering in India
The meaning behind the fundamental art and science of engineering is completely lost upon the average Indian student, and as one among them, I have a few gripes with the state of Indian engineering as an institution. The following is an attempt to lay them down after weeks of thought and countless missed deadlines to put this out. The only reason that it took this long is that I wanted to get this bang on, since we get only one shot at speaking about this.

# The Genesis of it all
The boom truly started in the 1990s, with the opening of the Indian economy to the global markets. A massive and young workforce, teeming with the hope of a better life and the opportunity of the largest social and economic forward mobility program that has ever happened in the nation in front of them was there to meet the demands of the global shortage of a skilled yet cheap labor.

The IT revolution of India, led by the giants that we now see as Infosys(1981), TCS(an ancient company - 1968), Tech Mahindra (1986), and HCL(1976) to name a few, kicked off the race to maintain the largest workforce that was capable of delivering and executing contracts at the lowest pay and the highest efficiency.

They called it Business Process Outsourcing, that included everything from customer support and call centers, right up to the development of entire systems for clients. Regardless of the timezone, the demand, the absurd sizes of the projects - if there was something within the world of IT that needed to be done, there was an Indian company that was ready to get it done.

# We Delivered. Everything.
And boy did they get that shit done. We delivered anything and everything to the world man, Y2K fixes for US and European Banks, airlines, and insurgency agencies, millions upon millions of lines of code in COBOL and C; then the legendary SBI transformation for our own country, and as word spread, for other Asian banks too; Wipro developing GE Medical firmware in the late 80s all the way till the end of the 90s; ERP portals and other financial systems that ran the most crucial financial transactions at that time; I could go on and on and on.

This led to the word spreading like wildfire in US and Europe, that Indians can build software out of seemingly thin air, can get it done YESTERDAY, and charge peanuts for it. And that, was all that it took for the white men to rub their hands together, and start bringing us over. Remember me mentioning forward social and economic mobility? Yeah, this is it.

# The Dream Back Home
In the late 90s and early 2000s, MILLIONS of our brethren immigrated to Europe and America to work within the IT and software industry. We spread like the pollen of a flower man, and where ever we went, we maintained a core fundamental - "We will deliver whatever is asked of us". Indians started earning 6 and 7 figures a year, and ending up with 8 figure sums all throughout their careers. The money, was undeniably amazing. It gave them access to a better life, better healthcare, education, roads and transport, improved quality of life, and what not. So much so that the remittances that were generated from all the money that was being sent back home contributed a significant portion of the national income at one point in time. This is where the notion of Indians being the IT wizards of the world came to fruition, and honestly, the notion holds true till this damn day. There is that one Indian IT guy at all companies who is the one stop solution to all the problems that have or may arise ever.

The scene was changing rapidly back home too. Not all of them went away - lakhs and crores of engineers stayed back home, in hubs of the IT industry like Bangalore, Pune, Noida, Gugugram, Chennai, Delhi and the whole NCR region, MUMBAI (how the fuck did I almost forget my own city?), just to name a few. They worked in their own country, paid taxes in the rupees, but the money being made, and being billed was in the good old USD. It was a dream come true for millions - they get to live with their family and earn the MOST amount anyone in their bloodline had ever seen since like, the last 5 generations.

Academia, was no different. As much as it may hate the fact, it itself on the same course as the industry of a particular country. To keep up with the way that business was done, there had to be enough kids being trained to suit the needs of the money making machines. And man oh man, did we not disappoint here.

The government privatized higher education to an unprecedented degree, and "Engineering colleges" started popping up like nukkad-ki-chai stalls in every state, city, and and town. Complacency is not an issue, but rather a feature in the institutions of this nation, and this led to sub-optimal checks and regulations within the process of opening up a damn college.

# The Tier System
We Indians love the systems that include exclusivity and elitism, so inadvertently, there was a system that formulated itself where college started to have tiers within them.

The cream of the crop were the IITs, and to be even more elitist within that, we had the 7 old IITs. And then a bunch of new ones, because there weren't enough benches to hold the butts that were coming in. Then in tier 2, there were the Regional Engineering Colleges, re-branded into National Institutes Of Technology. Finally, there was quite literally everything else. And here, is where it all started going to shit. Read on, I'll explain why.

See, the tier 1s had it all. Funds enough for a man to swim in, the best faculty, and some fucking standards in its systems when it came to running the college. And this, led to every kid aspiring to get into these limited seats. And with all things in India, the scale was incomprehensible. There was a time when the 12th standard marks were considered to get you into these colleges. But, the establishment quickly realised, that was not enough to differentiate the applicants. There was a clear need for a better method. Something that'll ensure only that the best students could have access to these elite institutions. Something that could separate the top dawgs from the rest. And thus, they invented the greatest rat race in the history of mankind. The Joint Entrance Examination. The great separator, the end-all be-all of all engineering aspirants, the-you know what, I should stop. As IT and the money being made started being popularized, and as academia started gearing up to mold the next generation of IT "Engineers", all that was left is for the floodgates to open and for the young talent of India to flood in. And boy of boy did they flood in alright.

# The Obsession and the Coaching for it all
You remember the money that everyone was making with the boom? The stories were amplified with a gain higher than infinity (I am an electronics engineer if you couldn't tell already). It wasn't long till every family, parent, grandparent and all the relatives that you could think of, in the social and financial underclass of the Indian society started dreaming about making the same money and beyond what they were hearing. And the fucked up part about it all is that when they felt like they missed the gold rush, they tried to live their dreams through their kids. Unfathomable number of kids had their fates sealed the day that they were born - "He/she shall be a software engineer". People went mad with this obsession. Kids had their childhoods snatched away from them, in order to get them ready and prepped for the JEE exams, and there were entities in place to take advantage of it all. Who am I talking about? You guessed it - coaching institutes.

It started small, like all social evils do. A man who goes by the name VK Bansal is credited with the start of it all. A bright student himself, he was a mechanical engineering graduate from Banaras Hindu University, now known as IIT-BHU. He established the Bansal coaching classes in 1991, and that is the genesis of the shit-show that we see these days. Tier two and three cities like Kota, that had no business being centers of economy started flourishing with this coaching industry. Hostels, food messes, coaching institutes that look like they are straight out of the soviet union, started popping up and establishing themselves as the one-stop solution to getting into a IIT. A dream that is sold to CRORES of kids every year, and the poor souls have no choice of their own, since their fates were sealed since before their birth. Young children started flooding in these cities and coaching institutes in numbers that seem laughable to be honest with you, all with the sole aim of beating any and everyone in their sight.

2 year classroom programs, distance learning programs, foundation classes - I have seen kids from the 6th standard being enrolled into these. A kid who's primary concern should be the time when Ben 10 comes on the television has now been entered into a rat-race that he/she has no business being in. The indoctrination of software engineering ran so deep and so started so early, that millions of kids grew up not knowing anything apart from what they have been told when it comes to career options.

# The YouTube Effect
YouTubers are another piece of this puzzle. The democratization of software engineering in India had been done so poorly that it watered down the whole meaning of engineering. The notion that was being pushed around declared that anyone can get into tech and become an engineer, all they have to do is watch this 10 hour video lecture and they are done! It started out as a way to help people get into tech, but quickly spiraled into low-hanging fruits being glorified as the end-all-be-all of software engineering. The rise in their popularity only made the echo chamber bigger and louder, and this is where the problems began.

Parents failed to educate their kids about anything beyond software engineering. 
Coaching institutes started brainwashing kids into believing that JEE and other entrance exams are the single most important moments of their lives. Colleges failed to set standards in their curriculum in order to produce more "Engineering Graduates". 
YouTubers made people believe that anyone can be an engineer in their life, without understanding the actual meaning of engineering. 

And the kids? They simply suffer.

# The Core Truth
Here is the deal. Engineering, mathematics, physics, coding and programming are inseparable. The problem with the state of Indian students, is that they learn how to code, think they can program, call themselves engineers, and ignore the math and physics behind it all. Engineering has long been pushed as the quickest method of gaining upwards mobility, and the sad part is that in order to get that done, we have lost the plot on what it truly is. People, as they always do, focused a little too much on the outcome and not the process of engineering. And in doing so, they tried to take any and every possible shortcut to get to what they believe was promised to them - a high paying job. As people optimized more and more for the outcome than the process, they failed to realize the misery in it all, till it was a little too late. A child who was amazing at economics or painting or a Sport not name cricket, has been forced to study App and Web development in his life, since that is what is believed to get the most money for them. Interests, liking, a will within the child to actually do something in his/her life - nothing ever mattered!

# Part 2 - The Real Problem
Now, for the second part of the problem. CSE has been watered down, distilled, and been reduced to a shameful shadow of it's true self in India. 

Look, we have long been an outsourcing economy, alright. Foreign money, when it comes to tech, has been coming in mostly because we are willing to force ourselves to deliver a higher throughput than Europeans or Americans, at less than a tenth of the price that it'd cost to hire an engineer over there. That has been the WHOLE game of Indian IT, to service a price arbitrage. And you know what? I don't even have an issue with that. It was a need that was being serviced, and there is nothing inherently wrong with that. People made a killing when it came to their own lives, and everyone was happy with the way things were going. 

My problem is that even after damn near 4 decades, we are STILL playing the same game. The money that was being made, should have been used to set up local competency, in order to build foundational technology that can be self-served. System software, EDA tools, Basic Design, Analysis, and manufacturing software - these are a few things at the start of a long list of things that should have come up by now. Indian companies, that own IP around these essential pieces of software, that control the access to high-quality systems should have been long established. But the problem is that the management at all the so-called IT GIANTS are very much content in running what is essentially a fancy, well equipped engineering sweat-shop. We are still caught in the services model, with local talent being hired and benched, clients being on-boarded with the primary promise of "We can get it done for cheaper", and then the service provider taking their cut before paying out peanuts to the "talent" that they hire to execute these projects. 

# Not a Talent Problem
And the worst part is that this isn't a talent problem. This is a management and vision problem, because DESPITE all the bullshit that goes on in Indian Engineering Education, there are still extremely talented engineers who have come out, moved to the west, and DOMINATED when it comes to product building. 

However, as I have established before - academia in this nation follows the industry, when in my opinion, it should be leading it. So the colleges of this country made it their primary goal to create a talent pipeline for these service providers. They straight-up told their students - "Fuck your interests and your liking and your passion for learning, you WILL be doing what is asked of you". 

And thus began the killing of passion. The death of creativity. The erasure of any semblance of an original thought. EVERYONE will learn front-end, back-end, MEAN and MERN, App development, Web Development, and you can go to hell if you even dare ask anything beyond what we are teaching you. That is partly because the professor doesn't know how to answer that, but they are 40-ish years old, so how dare you question their authority? And the kids? Lord help em. The BLATANT disregard for things like ToC, OS, Computer Architecture, Networking, and other Core-CSE subjects that exist in their courses, is shocking to say the least. Not to mention, their colleges don't do a particularly good job at cultivating an interest in these things anyway.

DECADES, nay, GENERATIONS have been indoctrinated with this exact mentality, and the over-saturation of the engineering market in India shouldn't be a damn surprise to ANYONE. This was a long time coming, and like we do with most of the issues in here, we kept sweeping it under the rug - till we couldn't anymore.

# The Consequences
And the consequences of this is now coming to surface. We don't have indigenous systems. We are reliant on foreign powers for damn near everything. Manufacturing equipment, design and analysis software, infrastructure and systems software, all of it comes from overseas. I am convinced that if BOSCH, Siemens, Dassault, and Ansys geo-lock their software, it'll take 12 hours or so for the manufacturing industry to be royally fucked. But that's another conversation all-together. 

If you have read this till the very end, I can only thank you for your time. My apologies to you, I don't really have a closure for this rant/article to be honest with you, my reader. And if you have something to say about this, I implore you - PLEASE do so. I am searching for solutions myself. Not that I believe they will ever come to fruition, but as humans, isn't it fundamental to have thoughts and opinions, and seek em out when you cannot find one within yourself?!
